# Academic Student Data Analysis
At the Information Technology Department of the Thessaloniki
ATEI the effort to improve the quality of the educational content and
that of the teaching/training practice is intense and continuous. This
is dictated by the rapid pace at which technology evolves and its im-
pact on the job market requirements for I.T. skills and qualifcations.
The present thesis project focuses on the analytical processing of un-
dergraduate and graduate exams data. The latter first undergo ex-
tensive preparation (cleansing and homogenization) for the results of
the later data processing stages to be reliable and trustworthy. Next
comes the statistical data processing stage. The first set of results
obtained turn out to be particularly useful in sketching the students
assessment 'profile' of each one course from one academic semester to
the next and from one academic year to its next one. An objective set
out as such from the beginning of the project has been to apply data
mining algorithms in the processing of students examinations data. As
it has turned out, the data preparation and the subsequent statistical
processing stages have required more time and effort than what was
originally expected. In this respect, the data mining stage has been
restricted to association rules mining. Still, the rules discovered are
informative and useful in the direction of assessing the quality of the
department's undergraduate and graduate course curricula. In addi-
tion, the results obtained can be utilized in devising and information
service dor the students to plan their study in a way that maximizes
their benefit from enrolling in the degree program. In this respect, the
present thesis project may be taken to comprise a first, pilot attempt
to apply data mining techniques to students examinations data at a
typical Higher Education Institution.

### TOOLS:
1. R (Rstudio)
2. Microsoft Excel
3. LaTeX
